Arriving here undoubtedly implies traversing a life. The immense life that is never traveled alone. Here is my mother, Clara; nothing would exist in my mind at this moment without her. Here is my father, Gustavo, a Caribbean man; here are my brothers Adriana and Juan, who put up with me. Here are my children, Nicolás Petro, Nicolás Alcocer, Andrea and Andrés, Sofia and Antonella, my little ones who blossom with heart and soul. Here is Verónica Alcocer, who has accompanied me, who has given me descendants, life itself. Through whom love has made everything possible. She will not only be here to accompany me but also to accompany the women of Colombia in their effort to move forward, to create, to fight, to be. To overcome violence within and outside families, to build the politics of love. Here, as in the journey of my existence, is the people. The humble hands of the worker, here are the peasant women and those who sweep the streets. Here are the hearts of labor, the illusions of those who suffer, here are the working women who have embraced me when I falter, when I feel weak; the love for the people, for the people who suffer exclusion, is what brings me here to unite and build a nation. Thus ends One Hundred Years of Solitude by our beloved Gabriel García Márquez: "Everything written in them was unrepeatable for all time and forever because races condemned to one hundred years of solitude did not have a second opportunity on earth." Colombian men and women have many times in our history been sent to the condemnation of the impossible, to the lack of opportunities, to resounding NOs. I want to tell all Colombian men and women who are listening to me in this Plaza Bolívar, in the surroundings, throughout Colombia and abroad, that today our second opportunity begins. We have earned it. You have earned it. Your effort was and will be worth it. It is the hour of change. Our future is not written. We are the owners of the pen, and we can write it together, in peace and unity. Today begins the Colombia of the possible. We are here against all odds, against a history that said we would never govern, against the usual suspects, against those who did not want to relinquish power. But we achieved it. We made the impossible possible. With work, by traveling and listening, with ideas, with love, with effort. From today, we begin to work so that more impossibilities become possible in Colombia. If we could, we can. May peace be possible. We must end, once and for all, six decades of violence and armed conflict. It can be done. We will comply with the Peace Agreement, we will strictly follow the recommendations of the Truth Commission report, and we will work tirelessly to bring peace and tranquility to every corner of Colombia. This is the Government of Life, of Peace, and that is how it will be remembered. Peace is possible if we unleash social dialogue in all regions of Colombia, to meet in the midst of differences, to express ourselves and be heard, to seek, through reason, the common paths of coexistence. It is all of society that must dialogue on how not to kill each other and on how to progress. In the binding regional dialogues, we call on all unarmed people to find the paths of the territory that allow coexistence. No matter the conflicts that exist there, it is precisely about making them evident through words, about trying to find solutions through reason. It is more democracy, more participation that I propose to end violence. But we also call on all armed groups to leave their weapons in the mists of the past. To accept legal benefits in exchange for peace, in exchange for the definitive non-repetition of violence, to work as owners of a prosperous but legal economy that ends the backwardness of the regions. For peace to be possible in Colombia, we need to dialogue, to dialogue a lot, to understand each other, to seek common paths, to produce changes. Of course, peace is possible if the drug policy is changed, for example, seen as a war, to a policy of strong prevention of consumption in developed societies. It is time for a new International Convention that accepts that the war on drugs has failed, that it has left one million Latin Americans murdered during these 40 years, and that it leaves 70,000 North Americans dead from overdoses each year. That the war on drugs strengthened the mafias and weakened the states. That the war on drugs has led states to commit crimes and has evaporated the horizon of democracy. Are we going to wait for another million Latin Americans to be murdered and for the number of overdose deaths in the United States to rise to 200,000 each year? Or rather, do we change failure for a success that allows Colombia and Latin America to live in peace? May equality be possible. Ten percent of the Colombian population holds 70% of the wealth. It is absurd and immoral. Let's not naturalize inequality and poverty. Let's not look the other way, let's not be accomplices. With will, redistribution policies, and a program of justice, we will make a more egalitarian Colombia with more opportunities for everyone. Equality is possible if we are capable of creating wealth for everyone and if we are capable of distributing it more fairly. That is why we propose an economy based on production, work, and knowledge. And that is why we propose a tax reform that generates justice. Taking a portion of the wealth of those who have the most and earn the most, to open the doors of education to all children and youth, should not be seen as a punishment or a sacrifice. It is simply the solidarity payment that a fortunate person makes to a society that allows and guarantees their fortune. If we are capable of taking a portion of the wealth that is created to malnourished children through something as simple as paying legal taxes, we will be more just and we will be more at peace. It is not just a matter of charity; it is a matter of human solidarity. Solidarity is what has allowed peoples to survive and achieve the greatest conquests of culture and civilization. We have not advanced as humanity by competing; we have done so by helping each other. That is why we are alive on this planet. We will be equal when those who have the most, when paying their taxes, do so with pleasure, with pride, knowing that they will help their neighbor, child, baby, young person, woman, to grow healthy, to think, to live with the fullness that nutrition and the education of the brain and soul provide. Solidarity is in the tax paid by those who can afford it and in the state spending that goes to those who need it for their childhood, their youth, their old age. That is why we have proposed a tax reform, a health and pension reform, a labor contract reform, and an education reform. That is why we have prioritized in the budget the infrastructure of education, health, drinking water, irrigation districts, and rural roads. Taxes will not be confiscatory; they will simply be fair, in a country that must recognize as an aberration the enormous social inequality in which we live, in a state that must protect the transparency of spending, and in a society that deserves to live in peace. Being a knowledge society, that is, a society where all its members have the highest level of education and culture, is not a utopia. Poorer countries than us decades ago are now knowledge societies simply because they invested for decades and with priority in public education. The time has come to repay the debt to our public education so that it reaches everyone and is of quality. The time has come to be aware that hunger is advancing. That it is advancing throughout the world because an idea of food security based exclusively on international trade has collapsed. International trade in itself is neither positive nor negative, but if it is not managed intelligently and planned, it can destroy economies and lives. The world today is learning the importance of food sovereignty. Food sovereignty is the guarantee that every society must have to consume its essential nutrients. Colombia is a country that must and can enjoy food sovereignty to achieve zero hunger. A mission of the State with all the private sector that wants to join must guarantee full and healthy food for all Colombian society and achieve export surpluses. In the land where the human being discovered corn, we must produce corn again. The State will have to provide irrigation, credit, techniques, improved seeds, and protection; the peasantry and private enterprise can provide the work and daily effort to ensure that our fields once again produce the food that our people need. We will rebuild irrigation districts with the Army and rural houses and roads with the soldiers of the Nation. The Army, society, and production can unite in a new indestructible social ethic. Helicopters and airplanes, frigates, not only serve to bomb or shoot; they also serve to create the first infrastructure of preventive health for the Colombian people. Only if we produce will we be rich and prosperous as a society. Wealth is in work, and work is increasingly about intelligence. Therefore, from today, all assets seized by the SAE (Special Assets Society) will become the basis of a new productive economy managed by peasant organizations, by urban cooperatives of productive youth, and by popular women's associations. May gender equality be possible. We cannot continue to allow women to have fewer job opportunities and earn less than men, to have to dedicate triple or quadruple the hours to caregiving tasks, to be less represented in our institutions. It is time to combat all these inequalities and balance the scales. May a green future be possible. Climate change is a reality. And it is urgent. It is not the left or the right saying it; science says it. We have and can find a model that is economically, socially, and environmentally sustainable. There will only be a future if we balance our lives and the economy of the whole world with nature. Science has announced the possible extinction of the human species in just one or two centuries due to the health effects that the climate crisis would bring. The COVID virus showed all humanity the living and real warning of this possibility. Science does not seem to be wrong. That is why, from this Colombia, we ask the world for action and not hypocrisy. We are willing to transition to a carbon-free and oil-free economy, but we do little to help humanity with that. We are not the ones who emit greenhouse gases. It is the rich of the world who do so, bringing the human being closer to extinction, but we do have the largest sponge for absorbing these gases after the oceans: the Amazon rainforest. One of the pillars of climate balance and life on the planet is the Amazon rainforest. Are we going to let that rainforest be destroyed to reach the point of no return in the extinction of humanity? Or are we going to save it with humanity itself, which wants to continue living on this earth? Where is the world fund to save the Amazon rainforest? Speeches will not save it. We can turn the entire population that currently inhabits the Colombian Amazon into a population that cares for the rainforest, but we need the world's funds to do so. If it is so difficult to obtain those funds that the agreed carbon taxes and climate funds should provide to save something so essential, then I propose to humanity to exchange external debt for internal spending to save and recover our rainforests, forests, and wetlands. Reduce the external debt, and we will spend the surplus on saving human lives. If the IMF helps to exchange debt for concrete action against the climate crisis, we will have a new prosperous economy and a new life for humanity. The "it can't be done" and "it has always been this way" are over. Today begins the Colombia of the possible. Today begins our second opportunity. From today, I am the president of all Colombia and of all Colombian men and women. It is my duty and my desire. Colombia is not just Bogotá. The Government of Change will be decentralized. I promise you that we will be and work throughout the country, from Leticia to Punta Gallinas, from Cabo Manglares to Isla San José. The absence of the State in many parts of the country is deeply painful. No more. I will work so that the place of birth does not condition your future and so that the State is present in every corner of Colombia. I thank the presidents and other representatives of the brotherly peoples of Latin America and the world for their presence. In times when we see sister nations bombing each other, here, in the heart of Colombia, in the heart of Latin America, there are a dozen presidents of the region, with ideological diversity and different trajectories, but all united, sharing this true celebration of democracy. It is time to leave behind blocs, groups, and ideological differences to work together. Let us understand once and for all that what unites us is much greater than what separates us. And that together we are stronger. Let us make that unity a reality, the unity dreamed of by our heroes, such as Bolívar, San Martín, Artigas, Sucre, and O’Higgins. It is not a utopia or romanticism. It is the path to make us strong in this complex world. Today we need to be more united than ever. As Simón Bolívar once said: "Union must save us, as division will destroy us if it manages to introduce itself among us." But Latin American unity cannot be rhetoric, mere discourse. We have just experienced perhaps the worst of the COVID pandemic, and Latin America was not able to come together, to coordinate, to buy the cheapest vaccines; it was practically used without negotiating capacity, dispersed in its governments. Are we going to have a Latin America without the capacity for scientific research? A Latin America without the capacity to coordinate its health services, without the capacity to coordinate the purchase of medicines in a unified manner? Latin America comes together in some institutions, but not in concrete projects. Have we perhaps achieved the connection of all our electricity networks? Is there an electricity network that covers all of America? Have we ensured that our energy sources are clean? Is it not time to boost public oil companies and our electricity transmission companies to build the Latin American business and financial instrument that undertakes investments in the generation of clean energy and in the transmission of that energy on a continental scale? Colombia will place its international emphasis on reaching the most ambitious possible agreements to curb climate change and defend world peace. We are not with war. We are with Life. We will seek greater alliances with Africa, from where we come; we will seek an alliance of Afro peoples in America; we will seek for San Andrés to be a health, cultural, and educational center of the Antilles Caribbean; from there will come all the ambassadors of Colombia to the Antilles. We will seek an alliance with the Arab world on the path of transitioning towards new decarbonized economies. We will seek to join our Buenaventura and Tumaco with the rich and productive East Asia. Our anthem, which is one of the most beautiful in the world, says "to feel or to suffer." Colombia accumulates centuries of suffering. A mother who cannot feed her child suffers it. A young person who emigrates because they cannot find opportunities suffers it. A grandmother or grandfather who does not have a dignified pension suffers it. The Colombia we dream of, the Colombia we want, the Colombia we deserve is the Colombia we want to feel. The Colombia that vibrates, that strives, that yearns and works to achieve peace. That wants a prosperous land, with equal opportunities regardless of where one was born, regardless of their parents' last names or their skin color. That is the Colombia we want to feel, and for which we will work until the last day of our mandate. In this first speech as President of Colombia, before the legislative power and before my people, I want to share my ten principles of government and my commitments. I will work to achieve true and definitive peace. Like no one else, like never before. We are going to comply with the Peace Agreement and follow the recommendations of the Truth Commission report. The "Government of Life" is the "Government of Peace." Peace is the meaning of my life; it is the hope of Colombia. We cannot fail Colombian society. The dead deserve it. The living need it. Life must be the basis of peace. A just and safe life. A life to live well, to live happily, so that joy and progress are our identity. I will take care of our grandfathers and grandmothers, our boys and girls, people with disabilities, people whom history or society has marginalized. We will create a "care policy" so that NO ONE is left behind. We are a supportive society that cares about and attends to our neighbors. May your government also be so. We will implement a policy sensitive to the suffering and pain of others, with tools and solutions to create equality. I will govern with and for the women of Colombia. Today, here, begins a parity government with a Ministry of Equality. Finally! With our Vice President and Minister Francia Márquez, we are going to work so that gender does not determine how much you earn or how you live. We want real equality and security so that Colombian women can walk peacefully and not fear for their lives. I will dialogue with everyone, without exceptions or exclusions. This will be a government with open doors for anyone who wants to dialogue about the problems of Colombia. Whatever their name, wherever they come from. What matters is not where we come from, but where we are going. We are united by the will for the future, not the weight of the past. We are going to build a Great National Agreement to set the roadmap for the Colombia of the coming years. Dialogue will be my method, agreements my objective. I will listen to Colombian men and women as I have been doing all these years. One does NOT govern from a distance, removed from the people and disconnected from their realities. On the contrary: one governs by listening. We are going to design mechanisms and dynamics so that every Colombian feels heard in this government. I will not be trapped behind the curtains of bureaucracy. I will be close to the problems. I will walk alongside and together with Colombians from all corners. Only those who are close can understand and put themselves in the place of the other. I will defend Colombian men and women from violence and work to ensure that families feel safe and secure. We will do so with a comprehensive security strategy. Colombia needs a strategy that ranges from prevention programs to the prosecution of criminal structures and the modernization of security forces. Lives saved will be our main indicator of success. Crime is fought in many ways. All essential. I want to defend Colombian families from daily and everyday insecurity: whether it is from gender-based violence or any other violence. I will fight corruption with a firm hand and without hesitation. A "zero tolerance" government. We are going to recover what was stolen, ensure that it does not happen again, and transform the system to discourage this type of practice. Neither family, nor friends, nor colleagues, nor collaborators... no one is excluded from the weight of the Law, from the commitment against corruption, and from my determination to fight it. I will protect our soil and subsoil, our seas and rivers. Our air and sky. Our landscapes define us and fill us with pride. And therefore, I am not going to allow the greed of a few to endanger our biodiversity. We are going to confront the uncontrolled deforestation of our forests and promote the development of renewable energies. Colombia will be a world power of life. Planet Earth is the "common home" of human beings. And Colombia, from its enormous natural wealth, will lead this fight for planetary life. I will develop the national industry, the popular economy, and the Colombian countryside. Without distinctions or preferences. We are going to accompany and support everyone who strives for Colombia: the peasant who gets up at dawn, the artisan who keeps our culture alive, the entrepreneur who creates jobs. We need everyone to grow and redistribute wealth.