
My daughter, Antonella Petro, just sent me a paragraph with which she wants me to start my speech. So, with your permission, I will read it. It's the paragraph of a 15-16-year-old girl, and it goes like this

"Today, I am proud to present myself before you as the president of the heart of the Earth. That is how our Indigenous peoples of the Sierra Nevada refer to my beautiful country. Geographically speaking, it makes sense that we are the heart of the world. However, if we are the heart, we must set an example of unity, of total peace, and of the preservation of nature. If the heart functions, it's a great advance. However, all other parts of the body are important. If one fails, the rest will too. That is why, from the heart of the Earth, we invite all countries to make an act of conscience, to set aside the greed that is killing humanity and Mother Earth, and to take a step towards total peace."

Up to that point, my daughter fulfilled her orders. And I continue.

Ladies and gentlemen, presidents of the world, in this chamber, a president's ability to communicate depends on the amount of dollars in their budget, on the number of warplanes they possess, and ultimately, on their country's capacity to destroy humanity.

The power of a country in the world is no longer exercised through its economic or political system, or the ideas it radiates, but through its power to destroy human life.
Those of us who lack that power of destruction—on the contrary, those of us who have the power to sustain life on the planet—speak without much attention paid to us, and often perhaps only to our own peoples.

That is why they do not listen to us when we vote to stop the genocide in Gaza. Even though we are the majority of the world's presidents and representatives of most of humanity, we are not heard by a minority of presidents who can stop the bombing. That is, we are not heard by the presidents of the countries that can destroy humanity.

If we ask for debt to be exchanged for climate action, the powerful minorities do not listen to us. If we ask to end wars to focus on the rapid transformation of the world's economy to save life and the human species, they do not listen to us either.

It is the power to destroy life that gives volume to the voice in the United Nations chamber and gathers most of its representatives and delegates.

The voice of nations is not heard, and we ask to unite human effort for existence. Here we speak, but we are not heard. However, perhaps we no longer speak to be heard and to dialogue with the presidents of world power, but so that the peoples of the world may listen.

Today, things are worse than a year ago. Eleven million hectares have burned in the Amazon rainforest in just one month due to global warming and the climate crisis.
Scientists said that if the Amazon rainforest burned, we would reach the point of no return in climate change, where human decisions to stop the collapse would already be ineffective.

Well, the Amazon rainforest is burning. The bells are already tolling across the planet—for you, for us, for life and humanity, as Ernest Hemingway said. The bells do not only toll for you but for all life.

The end has begun. A year ago, I called for a peace conference for Palestine in this very place, before the first bomb had exploded.

Today, we have 20,000 children murdered under the bombs, and the presidents of the countries of human destruction laugh in these corridors, aided by the communication power of global media, which today are owned by big capital, reorganizing the world without democracy, without freedom.

The democratic project of humanity is dying along with life, while racists, supremacists, those who stupidly believe that Aryans are the superior race, prepare to dominate the world by writing the terror of bombs upon the peoples.
The control of humanity based on barbarism is under construction, and its demonstration is Gaza, Lebanon. When Gaza dies, all humanity will die.

It turns out that the people of God were not the people of Israel, nor the people of the United States of America, but the people of God is all humanity, and the children of Gaza—that was humanity, the chosen people of God.

They are killing the chosen people of God, the children of humanity.

There is a reason for this Armageddon of the contemporary world.

In the irrationality of governments that applaud genocide and do not act promptly to change economies towards decarbonization, there is a logic.

The logic is not in the political world nor in this podium where all presidents speak. The logic is outside and is called social inequality.

Oxfam says that the richest 1% of humanity has more wealth than 95% of all humanity combined.

It is in this inequality, the greatest in our history as a species, where the logic of the massive destruction unleashed in the climate crisis and the logic of the bombs dropped by a criminal like Netanyahu on Gaza are found.

Netanyahu is a hero for the richest 1% of humanity because he is capable of showing that peoples are destroyed under bombs.

If we measure wealth in CO₂ emitted and not in dollars, we have the answer.

The richest 1% of humanity is responsible for the advancing climate crisis and opposes ending the world of oil and coal because it is their own source of wealth.

Politicians, including presidents of the most powerful countries on Earth, simply obey them.

They fund campaigns. They own the media. They are the ones who hide the truth of science, as in the movie *Don't Look Up*.

They are the ones who dictate what is thought, what is said, and what must be prohibited and silenced.

In their power of prohibition and censorship, they shout "Long live freedom, damn it," but it is only the freedom of the richest 1% of the world's population that, in their mercantile and free feeling, leads us to the destruction of the atmosphere and life.

The free market was not freedom as they said, but the maximization of death.

That richest 1% of humanity, the powerful global oligarchy, is the one that allows bombs to be dropped on women, the elderly, and children in Gaza, Lebanon, or Sudan.

Or that economically block rebellious countries that do not fit into their dominance, like Cuba or Venezuela, because they need to show their power of destruction to the remaining 99% of humanity so that they let them continue directing the world's power and appropriating and accumulating more and more wealth.

The global oligarchy is leading humanity to its own extinction, and it is towards that where politics pays homage, completely abandoning the idea of freedom and the power of the peoples, the idea of democracy.

The question that must be asked from this podium is whether the peoples will allow it.

There is no more time; governments are incapable of stopping the extinction of life.

Today, we must choose: is it life or greed, is it humanity or capital?

I can only tell the peoples of the world, from the weak voice of a country without weapons of mass destruction, without dollars, but beautiful for its natural and cultural diversity, the country of beauty and butterflies of all colors, that it is no longer the time of governments but the time of the peoples.

Time is up. Either we raise the flag of life, or our peoples will be filled with cemeteries, as the epidemic showed us.

It is the time of the peoples, and we must act locally and agree globally.

Fossil capital can continue; fossil capital cannot continue. The peoples must stop it.

The poison thrown into the atmosphere is fatal, and the chimneys that emit it must be stopped.

Every corner of the world can be a battle against those chimneys.

A century ago, a red flag was raised in the hands of the working masses, speaking of a revolution against capital.

That world ended, lost in the gigantism of States and the absence of freedom.

The red flag did not find its place in the history of humanity.

But today, with more reason, no longer to defend a class, a system of ideas, but to defend collective life, the flag must be raised again, perhaps no longer red but of all colors, a flag of all humanity to defend its own existence on the planet.

Perhaps the word socialism today has a new meaning.

Brains, which are the true basis of work, are more connected today than ever.

Today, human knowledge is more collective than ever.

Helping each other has always been the magic


